---
author: Torange
comments: false
date: 2015-07-20 21:50:03+00:00
layout: post
link: https://www.goldenthread.org/2015/07/20/9678/
slug: '9678'
title: Ghost No More!
wordpress_id: 9678
categories:
- Blog
tags:
- reorient2015
---




# **Ghost No More!**


**by Playwright Yussef El Guindi**

ReOrient is a big bundle of drama, comedy, lyricism, surreal somersaults into strange landscapes, or realistic lunges into sensitive topics (among other things). A ReOrient stage is a stage stuffed with unique viewpoints and unconventional ideas that come from a much misunderstood, and frequently maligned, part of the world. 
<!-- more -->
I’ve always been a tad gobsmacked that, given the Middle East’s prominence in world affairs, larger theaters, for the most part, stay away from plays that want to probe the culture and politics of that region. But I guess American theater, in general, shies away from most things political. And given that the Middle East makes headlines in a mostly negative and political way—as opposed to stories that could also focus on both its rich contemporary culture, and its even richer cultural heritage—it’s not surprising that theaters don’t feature plays with Middle East themes.

I’ve been part of the ReOrient Festival for 14 years now. It is one of the rare venues that stages the kinds of stories I want/need to tell. It’s terribly debilitating, psychologically speaking, to find yourself only “haunting” the theater world you want to belong to, but can’t, because your stories, filled with Arabs and Muslims, are slightly outside the comfort zones of most theaters. Golden Thread’s ReOrient comes along and allows you to fully embody and embrace those stories. Ghost no more! You are no longer invisible. You have now found a means of communicating the stories that sustain you, that bite and bicker in your head to be heard, and have now found a home.

And the fact that it’s a festival of short pieces allows me to try things out that I might shy away from if I was working on a longer piece. I can risk more in terms of style and content. ReOrient functions as a kind of lab for me. A place to try things out (should the play be accepted into the festival, of course). Knowing there’s one theater out there that might be receptive to an off-the-wall, stylistically adventurous play that deals with the prickly subject of Arabs and Muslims, is a boon to my imagination.

ReOrient, then, is an arena for me for stories that may never get told anywhere else. 



* * *



**Yussef El Guindi**’s _Picking Up the Scent_ is featured in ReOrient 2015. El Guindi is an Egyptian-American writer and the playwright that has been featured the most number of times in the ReOrient Festival (Seven times, for those counting). He is the winner of the 2012 Steinberg/American Theater Critics Association’s New Play Award and the recipient of the 2010 Middle East America Award. A Golden Thread artistic associate, his full-length plays _Back of the Throat, Jihad Jones and Kalashnikov Babes,_ and _Language Rooms_ have appeared on Golden Thread stages. 

(Pictured: Playwright Yussef El Guindi surrounded by the cast and crew of his play _Language Rooms_.)
