---
author: Torange
comments: false
date: 2015-07-30 04:04:12+00:00
layout: post
link: https://www.goldenthread.org/2015/07/30/9811/
slug: '9811'
title: Writing Beyond My Own Culture
wordpress_id: 9811
categories:
- Blog
tags:
- reorient2015
---

# **Writing Beyond My Own Culture**


**by Emma Goldman-Sherman, Playwright**

My play, _Counting in Sha’ab_, about a community in Iraq, mostly wrote itself before I knew anything about Iraq. I adapted it from an article in the _New York Times_ that immediately struck me and created an emotional response large enough to send me inside that world. I could see the canned goods on the shelves of the grocery store where the play is set. I could hear the characters speak, and then I knew their thoughts. As I listened deeply, I could detect their hearts pounding out their fears and desires. This is about as wonderful a moment as any playwright can hope for, so I wrote it all down.

<!-- more -->

I didn’t set out to write a play about Iraq; a play about Iraq moved through me, probably because I am moved by how humans manage to live through violence and disruption. I grew up in a manicured suburb of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in spite of years of abuse (both violent and disruptive). So although Iraqi culture is not my own, fear and trauma are, and I do not believe that people are much different from each other, even across cultures, when it comes to managing terror.

Writing beyond my own culture has its challenges. How do I know if I am getting it right? I reached out to an Iraqi actor I know.  He read it, and we met to discuss it. My Arabic has been and will probably continue to be faulty, but it’s fixable. Nothing gets put on stage without a lot of other people discussing, imagining, designing and questioning it, so I don’t need to worry. I don’t have the answers to everything, but that is where it helps to embrace community and collaboration. It may seem presumptive, but I try to write from a place of compassion without condescension, aware of my own white skin privilege, and with the idea that we can understand and know each other from the inside out.  I want to bring that to an audience.

When Golden Thread invited me to participate in ReOrient 2015, I felt honored and grateful to be included. As an un-hyphenated white American without any Middle Eastern connections beyond the ones I feel in my heart, I seek connection to and understanding of people of many cultures. As a playwright, it is my job to make those connections whenever and wherever possible and to use that to fuel my work.

Working with Golden Thread Productions has been an incredibly positive experience, because I’ve learned so much and grown as an artist. This can’t happen if a person doesn’t feel safe.  I commend Torange, Michelle and Evren for creating a dynamic, open, exploratory atmosphere full of kindness and compassion. ReOrient Camp provided me with a strong sense that we are all working together to create an event that will be greater than the sum of all its parts.



* * *



**Emma Goldman-Sherman** is a NYC-based writer and this is the first time that she’s working with Golden Thread. Her plays have been produced in New York City, Los Angeles, London, and Zagreb by Manhattan Theatre Source, Circle Rep Lab, The Women's Project, Ensemble Studio Theatre, New Georges, and All Out Arts. We are thrilled to introduce her work to the Bay Area with this play that tells a complicated and ultimately uplifting story of finding strength in your community.


