---
author: Torange
comments: false
date: 2015-08-19 19:19:22+00:00
layout: post
link: https://www.goldenthread.org/2015/08/19/9937/
slug: '9937'
title: The Risk of Being a "Niche" Artist
wordpress_id: 9937
categories:
- Blog
tags:
- reorient2015
---

# **The Risk of Being a "Niche" Artist**


**by Nahal Navidar, Playwright**

A visceral energy of excitement is palpable as I walk into the rehearsal space for Golden Thread’s ReOrient meet and greet.  Actors, directors, playwrights, designers, and production staff chat full of inspired ideas for the weeks to come.   In many ways, this spirited encounter is not unlike the initial production meetings that take place in so many rehearsal spaces. I realize, however, there is an added layer that joins us in this unique front.  We unite with an invested interest in representing the multifaceted voices of the Middle Eastern diaspora. 
<!-- more -->
When I wrote my first play in 2001 as an emotional response to living in a post-9/11 world, I did so as an Iranian-American artist who had yet to see my perspective represented on the American stage. In the years to follow, a handful of Middle Eastern playwrights have gained enough traction to be produced regularly, yet more often, Middle Eastern characters are represented through a Western lens.   These characters are often lack the nuanced cultural depth to make them as fully-realized as their Western counterparts.  As an emerging playwright who has set the majority of my plays in Iran, I have often been advised to  “Americanize” my plays.  Focusing on hot-topic issues like extremist-Islam, for example, would make my work more producible.  Otherwise I run the risk of being a “niche” artist.

When the ReOrient artistic team began the dramaturgical investigation of Songs of our Childhood, I was urged to prod into the psychology of my characters. From draft to draft, I stripped away the historical exposition and ideological rhetoric, unlayering real emotional truth. Expositional factors revealed themselves as a by-product of character motivation rather than a need to explain.  I was allowed this freedom because the ReOrient team approached my work with a base understanding of the rich cultural dimensions at hand.  

Golden Thread offers this same understanding for all of the plays included in the ReOrient Festival. We search for dialogue amongst the pieces that range from Baghdad to London, Israel to Iran, and in turn challenge the audience to reflect the investigation back to the perspective on the American stage.  At its core, this is the very purpose of theatre:  To connect to an experience that is not one’s own and exit the theatre newly awakened to meaningful dialogue.  This discourse has enriched my understanding of my own work, and is why I ReOrient.  



* * *



Nahal Navidar is an Iranian-American writer and a recent graduate of USC’s Dramatic Writing Program. This is the first time she will be produced by Golden Thread, but we had the pleasure of featuring her ReOrient play Songs of Our Childhood in last year’s New Threads reading series. Along with her writing for theater, she is also working on a brand new opera, Donia, in collaboration with composer Julia Adolphe.
