---
author: Torange
comments: false
date: 2016-07-11 16:52:23+00:00
layout: post
link: https://www.goldenthread.org/2016/07/11/the-annex/
slug: the-annex
title: We Have a New Home!
wordpress_id: 11272
categories:
- Blog
---

**Crowded Fire Theater Company and Golden Thread Productions announce new shared office and rehearsal space**
		
It might still be covered in boxes, but we couldn't be happier in our new home! After years of being cramped in tiny offices and having to scramble to find rehearsal space, we are finally settling into a space that accommodates both our administrative and rehearsal needs. This move takes us one giant step closer to our goal of a long-term artistic home. 

The 1,100 square foot space named “The Annex” is located at 1695 18th Street, Suite C101, in the Potrero Hill neighborhood of San Francisco — in the same complex as the Thick House where most of our main stage shows will be presented in 2016-17.  

And what a joy to be able to share it with our friends at [Crowded Fire](http://www.crowdedfire.org), a theatre company that shares our values and we deeply respect. In the midst of the real estate crisis in the Bay Area that has displaced so many, two small non-profits finding an affordable and stable home in San Francisco is a cause for celebration. And that’s exactly what we plan to do. _Stay tuned for a community open house soon!_



* * *



Golden Thread would like to thank the following for their timely and generous contribution to support our move to the new office studio.
 
Armen & Nelly Der Kiureghian
Elizabeth Benedict
Jamileh Davoudi & Paul von Stamwitz
Arman Toorians
Jim & Jo Lucas
Roberta Levitow

