---
title: Content Guide
date: 2021-05-21T01:34:40.542Z
description: ""
---
Welcome to Golden Thread’s season content guide. Here you’ll find a more in-depth description of each production as well as other content information intended to help our patrons engage with our work as they choose.

We have tried to include content that is considered to be of a sensitive nature, but this list does not necessarily cover every subject of concern. Some content may be only briefly mentioned, while other content may be a more major theme or central aspect of the play.

If you wish to know more about the content you see here, please contact the box office by phone or email. We would be happy to provide more information.

![THE ORIGINAL PLAY  Produced in 411 BC, Aristophanes' Lysistrata is one of the most popular of the extant Greek comedies. It followed shortly on a disastrous phase of Athens’s war with Sparta. Many of Aristophanes plays use a utopian premise to criticize war. Lysistrata addresses the politics of its time in a variety of ways. Lampooning the politicians of the time and Athens’s expansionist policies on the one hand, and utilizing the social inferiority of the women in Athens as a comic ploy, on the other hand. Aristophanes was a master at highlighting social hypocrisies. But at the same time the play is by no means "feminist" in its approach. Aristophanes pleads for peace and advocates family values of his own time, seeing women as child bearers and home makers with sexuality being their only weapon.  THE 1997 ADAPTATION  To fully reap the sows of Aristophanes political commentary, a contemporary adaptation needs to address the politics of its own time. Certainly the role of women in our society has changed, albeit slightly!, from Aristophanes' era. This cannot be ignored. War remains, but the players are different. The United States may be the Athens of today; the global leader, economically and militarily. This adaptation focuses on the relationship between the US and the Middle East. Islamic Fundamentalism is currently being thrown around as the one remaining enemy, the force that threatens "Democracy" in the world today. In this production Iran is being presented as a background player, with Palestine and Israel as the main warring parties. The play is really designed to speak directly to its audience, however. And since it is being produced in the US, it seems important to set the play in the US as well. In this production, the Jewish-American Lysistrata along with the Palestinian-American Kalonike, unite women from around the world, including the Iranian Lampito, to join in on a global sex strike in order to force men to stop war and sign the World Peace treaty. The play attempts to emphasize the global nature of war in our time and the need for a global peace settlement. Satirical depictions: Misogyny, sexual coercion, harassment. References to: Gendered violence, oppression.](https://ucarecdn.com/e936df86-b100-4722-8388-26ff9b3a7a36/ "Operation No Penetration: Lysistrata '97!")