---
title: Golden Thread Announces Artistic Leadership Transition
date: 2025-11-07T21:43:51.404Z
description: >
  Artistic Director Sahar Assaf steps down after four successful seasons defined
  by powerful artmaking; global, national, and local Partnerships; and fearless
  activism. Celebrated Nubian-Egyptian-American Artistic Leader Nabra Nelson
  announced as Golden Thread’s third Artistic Director.
background: https://ucarecdn.com/8d4236c2-b14a-4d14-bf58-f91d54b5e649/
---
#### Artistic Director Sahar Assaf Steps Down After Four Successful Seasons Defined by Powerful Artmaking; Global, National, and Local Partnerships; and Fearless Activism. 

#### Celebrated Nubian-Egyptian-American Artistic Leader Nabra Nelson Announced as Golden Thread’s Third Artistic Director.

Golden Thread Productions, the first American theatre company devoted to the Middle East, announces an artistic leadership transition in advance of its 30th Anniversary Season. Artistic Director **Sahar Assaf** steps down after four celebrated seasons, which have been defined by powerful artmaking; fearless activism; global, national and local partnerships; and an impressive rebuilding of the company’s programming and audience following the COVID-19 pandemic. The Golden Thread Board of Trustees is proud to announce celebrated Nubian-Egyptian-American playwright, director, and artistic leader **Nabra Nelson** as the company’s third Artistic Director. 

Nelson, whose artistry and activism align seamlessly with Golden Thread’s mission, was selected after a rigorous internal search process. A founding member of Dunya Productions, HERitage emBODYment, and Heard Space Arts Collective, she leads the Nubian Foundation for Preserving a Cultural Heritage, co-hosts the Kunafa & Shay Theater Podcast, and is a board member with the MENA Theater Makers Alliance. Currently based in Los Angeles, Nabra works as a teaching artist, DEI consultant, and grant writer, with past community engagement leadership roles at Seattle Rep and Milwaukee Rep. Her plays have been developed and produced across the country, including at Golden Thread. Nelson, who will start her tenure early 2026, joins Golden Thread Managing Director Wynne Chan in a shared leadership model under the Board of Trustees.  

Nelson said of her new appointment at Golden Thread: “I am honored to serve in this position, and uphold the monumental legacy of Torange Yeghiazarian and Sahar Assaf. Golden Thread Productions exists because of an enduring need in the community. That is why it was started and that is still what drives its work. Exemplified by its recent Season for Palestine, this organization has always been at the forefront of theater as activism and advocacy, and I am humbled to be taking on this mantle. I consider an Artistic Director as a facilitator — it is my job to be in tune with our community, our artists, our society, in order to nurture art that reflects our hearts. What I see now are hearts crying out to be heard; I see hearts longing for laughter, in need of healing, and demanding change. Art provides.”

Outgoing Artistic Director Sahar Assaf adds: “Time really flies! I can’t believe I’ve already produced four seasons at Golden Thread. I’m filled with gratitude for the extraordinary staff, artists, community members, funders, donors, and friends who make up this vibrant family.” Now based in Riyadh, Assaf will be with Golden Thread in her current capacity through March 2026, allowing for a few months of overlap as Golden Thread launches its 30th Anniversary Season. She adds: “While it’s bittersweet to be stepping away, I couldn’t be happier to leave Golden Thread in such capable and visionary hands. Nabra Nelson is a talented and heartful artist and an avid advocate for our communities.  Her commitment to Palestinian artists and voices warms my heart. I have no doubt she will carry forward the courage and clarity that have defined our work.” Beyond March 2026, Assaf will continue with Golden Thread in a formal capacity to continue the international engagement work that defined her time at the company. She will represent the company internationally to strengthen cultural exchange and develop new artistic collaborations with artists in the Middle East. 

Golden Thread Board President Nora el Samahy says of this moment of transition: “Golden Thread shares stories from and about the Middle East, with all its richness and complexities, while carrying the focus of upholding humanity through art. Sahar Assaf’s powerful leadership ushered us into this moment of collective reckoning with an unwavering commitment to bringing silenced voices to the forefront. With that she has created deeper connections within our national and international communities. We are proud to have had her enrich the work that Golden Thread has fostered for three decades. As Sahar exits this role she passes the baton to Nabra Nelson, another bold female leader who has dedicated her multi-hyphenate artistic career to creating with inquiry and listening. It is apt that as the company enters its 30th year of existence, we welcome in a celebrated member of our community at its helm.” 

Managing Director Wynne Chan adds: “I'm so grateful to have had the opportunity to lead Golden Thread with a thoughtful, brave, and value-based leader like Sahar. I've learned so much of what it means to produce work that is for the moment, to lead with grace, and to create opportunities for dialogue and conversation from her. While I’ll miss working with her as a co-leader, I am happy to see her take on a different role with the company, and I’m already so excited to partner with Nabra, a communicative and thoughtful leader, very open and transparent, and also a joy to be around. Succeeding Sahar and our brilliant founder Torange Yeghiaziarian is no small feat, but I truly cannot think of anyone that's more fitting for this role than Nabra.”

**ABOUT NABRA NELSON:** 

**Nabra Nelson (she/her)** is a multi-disciplinary theater maker with over a decade of experience as a director, administrator, writer, consultant, dramaturg, and teaching artist. For nine years, she was a leader in the field of regional theater community engagement as the Director of Arts Engagement at Seattle Rep and the Community Engagement Manager at Milwaukee Repertory Theater. She is a Founding Company Member of Dunya Productions (Seattle’s MENA-focused theatre company), HERitage emBODYment (an Egyptian devising ensemble), and Heard Space Arts Collective (Milwaukee’s women-of-color performance troupe). She co-leads the Nubian Foundation for Preserving a Cultural Heritage, which has partnered with international organizations to spread awareness of Nubian culture through the arts. She serves as a Board Member of the MENA Theater Makers Alliance, and co-hosts the Kunafa & Shay MENA Theatre Podcast produced by HowlRound Theater Commons. Her commitment to racial equity and social justice education deepens in her work as a consultant with 4Culture and Avent Diversity Consulting. Her plays have been produced and developed in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle, Milwaukee, Santa Barbara, Portland, and Minneapolis. She has directed and been dramaturg at theatres across the nation. As a Producer, she has worked with The Peace Studio, The Bloc, the Women’s Ensemble Theatre Troupe, and the MultiCultural Drama Company. As a Teaching Artist, she has worked with Young Women Empowered, Pasadena Playhouse, the Unusual Suspects Theater Company, and Seattle Public Schools and the Office of Arts & Culture’s Ethnic Studies and Theatre of the Oppressed Institute. Awards and recognitions include the New England Foundation for the Arts National Theatre Project, Dramatists Guild Foundation National Playwriting Fellowship, New Arab American Theater Works’ Inaugural Playwriting Cohort, 4Culture Project Grant, Map Fund Artist Award, Wisconsin Veterans Chamber of Commerce Nonprofit Partner of the Year, and Agenda Communicating the Arts 30 Under 30. Her scholarship has been published by Routledge, Bloomsbury, Johns Hopkins University Press, The Gemsbok, and the Pedagogy and Theatre of the Oppressed Journal. One of her many connections to the Bay Area includes as part of the Eco-Artivist Cohort of Dancing Earth. She is a graduate of the University of California, Santa Barbara, with a degree in Theatre Arts, Directing, and a minor in Physics.